Detail the new login migration impacts (#1823)
PrestaShop/docs: modules/core-updates/9.0.md

- [Services translator, security.csrf.token_manager, session, session.flash_bag no longer public](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/35069)
- [Replace AdminSecurity annotation with attributes](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/35212)

### BO login and authorization migrated to Symfony

> The login page to the back-office has been migrated to Symfony, along ith it the system of authorization in the BackOffice is now also based on Symfony, it implies several things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The back office login page has been migrated to Symfony. Along with this change, the authorization system in the back office is now also based on Symfony, which implies several things:
```

> - we no longer depend on the legacy `Context::$cookie`, the session is kept on the server side and very few data are kept on the browser side, for retro-compatibility we still populate the legacy cookie so that you can **read** it but modifying/writing it will likely no longer have the effect you would expect (if any)

Reviewer 2: @jolelievre Jo, will this $context->cookie still be accessible or not? Because some things depend on it, For example - https://github.com/PrestaShop/ps_googleanalytics/blob/618ade8f9a424ad31968f6367ddf3e0be8c5f879/ps_googleanalytics.php#L131

If not, could you note some other way to store temporary data between sessions? ($session?)

Author: Hmm actually you can still write data in the cookie, it's just that the core no longer depends on it So for example you can't perform a BO login by manipulating the cookie anymore
But persisted data is still present in the cookie so it should be compatible for the modules, but you're right I'm gonna detail this a bit more

And regarding new possibilities to persist data, you can save attributes in the Symfony token That's what we did to handle:
- shop context
- employee session
- IP address checking

So it's worth detailing this as well I guess.

> - we no longer depend on the legacy `Context::$cookie`, the session is kept on the server side and very few data are kept on the browser side, for retro-compatibility we still populate the legacy cookie so that you can **read** it but modifying/writing it will likely no longer have the effect you would expect (if any)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- we no longer depend on the legacy `Context::$cookie`, the session is kept on the server side, and very few data are kept on the browser side, for retro-compatibility we still populate the legacy cookie so that you can **read** it, but modifying/writing it will likely no longer have the effect you would expect (if any)
```

as @Hlavtox mentioned, it requires some clarification because it is probably not true for most of the scenarios cookies have been used by community developers

Author: Yeah I modified this, let me know after I push my changes it it's clearer

> - we no longer depend on the legacy `Context::$cookie`, the session is kept on the server side, and very few data are kept on the browser side, for retro-compatibility we still populate the legacy cookie so that you can **read** it Although you can modify it for your custom data but modifying the data previously used for PrestaShop authorization will no longer have effect (or unstable ones) so it's not recommended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- we no longer depend on the legacy `Context::$cookie`, the session is kept on the server side, and very few data are kept on the browser side. For retro-compatibility, we still populate the legacy cookie so that you can **read** it. While you can work with `Context::$cookie` and your custom data, making changes to the data used for PrestaShop authorization may no longer have the desired effect or may result in instability, so it's not recommended.
```

A little rephrase.

> - the `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\EmployeeProvider` and `PrestaShopBundle\Service\DataProvider\UserProvider` now return a `PrestaShopBundle\Entity\Employee` instance, their responsibility as to return a `Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface` anyway (and they still do) but in case you depended on the child class know that `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\Employee` no longer exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\EmployeeProvider` and `PrestaShopBundle\Service\DataProvider\UserProvider` now return a `PrestaShopBundle\Entity\Employee` instance, their responsibility is to return a `Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface` anyway (and they still do) but in case you depended on the child class know that `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\Employee` no longer exist
```

> - if you need to get the logged-in user you can use the Symfony `Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security` service, but we recommend you'd rather use the `EmployeeContext` internal PrestaShop service instead (see explanation about [new Contexts]({{< relref "9/modules/core-updates/9.0.md#symfony-context-refacto" >}}))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if you need to get the logged-in user, you can use the Symfony `Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security` service, but we recommend you use the `EmployeeContext` the internal PrestaShop service (see explanation about [new Contexts]({{< relref "9/modules/core-updates/9.0.md#symfony-context-refacto" >}}))
```

**Removed hooks:**
- `actionAdminLoginControllerBefore`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerLoginBefore`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerLoginAfter`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerForgotBefore`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerForgotAfter`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerResetBefore`
- `actionAdminLoginControllerResetAfter`

**Hooks kept for backward compatibility:**
- `actionAdminLoginControllerSetMedia` so you can add some custom assets on the login page
- `displayAdminLogin` so you can add custom HTML on the login page

**New hooks**
- `actionBackOfficeLoginForm` to modify the login form (the form builder is passed via the `form_builder` hook parameter)
- `actionEmployeeRequestPasswordResetForm` to modify the request password form (the form builder is passed via the `form_builder` hook parameter)

> The logic of the login, however, is not handled by PrestaShop internal code so there is no handler that interprets the submitted data (and that's hy there is so few new hooks), instead we rely on <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#form-login" target="_blank">Symfony form login authentication system</a>, so it's Symfony internal system that interprets the data submitted, validates it and authenticate the employee to the back-office.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The logic of the login, however, is not handled by PrestaShop internal code so there is no handler that interprets the submitted data (and that's why there is so few new hooks), instead we rely on <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#form-login" target="_blank">Symfony form login authentication system</a>, so it's Symfony internal system that interprets the data submitted, validates it and authenticate the employee to the back-office.
```

> The logic of the login, however, is not handled by PrestaShop internal code so there is no handler that interprets the submitted data (and that's hy there is so few new hooks), instead we rely on <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#form-login" target="_blank">Symfony form login authentication system</a>, so it's Symfony internal system that interprets the data submitted, validates it and authenticate the employee to the back-office.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The login logic is not handled by PrestaShop's internal code, so there is no handler that interprets the submitted data (and that's why there are so few new hooks). Instead, we rely on <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#form-login" target="_blank">Symfony form login authentication system</a>, so it's Symfony's internal system that interprets the data submitted, validates it and authenticate the employee to the back office.
```

> If you need to interface your code with the authentication process you should now rely on the <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#authentication-events" target="_blank">Authentication events</a> described in their documentation, you can also inspire yourself from our <a href="https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/develop/src/PrestaShopBundle/EventListener/Admin/EmployeeSessionSubscriber.php" target="_blank">own internal subscriber</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to interfere with the authentication process, you should now rely on the <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#authentication-events" target="_blank">Authentication events</a> described in their documentation, you can also inspire yourself from our <a href="https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/develop/src/PrestaShopBundle/EventListener/Admin/EmployeeSessionSubscriber.php" target="_blank">own internal subscriber</a>.
```

Author: I prefered the word `integrate`, interfere makes it feel like you wanna prevent the initial behaviour more than add something to it

- the `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\EmployeeProvider` and `PrestaShopBundle\Service\DataProvider\UserProvider` now return a `PrestaShopBundle\Entity\Employee` instance, their responsibility is to return a `Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface` anyway (and they still do) but in case you depended on the child class know that `PrestaShopBundle\Security\Admin\Employee` no longer exist
- if you need to get the logged-in user, you can use the Symfony `Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security` service, but we recommend you use the `EmployeeContext` internal PrestaShop service (see explanation about [new Contexts]({{< relref "9/modules/core-updates/9.0.md#symfony-context-refacto" >}}))

**Storing custom data in Session**

> If you need to persist some custom Employee data we don't recommend using the `Context::$cookie` anymore, instead you can use the `Session` from Symfony and update its attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to persist some custom Employee data, we don't recommend using the `Context::$cookie` anymore, instead you can use the `Session` from Symfony and update its attributes:
```

```php
// In Symfony controllers, you can get the session from the Request parameter injected by Symfony
$session = $request->getSession();

// In other services you will need to get the current request via the RequestStack service
$request = $requestStack->getCurrentRequest();
if ($request) {
  $session = $request->getSession();
}

> // You can then get/set a custom attribute, but you should always check that the session object is indeed available Some request do not rely on session and the session may never be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// You can then get/set a custom attribute, but you should always check that the session object is indeed available. Some requests do not rely on the session, and the session may never be created.
```

if ($session) {
  // Be careful to use a custom and UNIQUE attribute name
  $myData = $session->getAttribute('my_custom_data');

>   // The session object will be automatically serialized at the end of the request, and automatically unserialized at the beginning of next requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // The session object will be automatically serialized at the end of the request, and automatically unserialized at the beginning of the next requests
```

  $session->setAttribute('my_custom_data', 'updated value');
}
```

{{% notice note %}}

> The Symfony session has other interesting features (like flash bags for unique usage data), feel free to read more about is usage in the <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/6.4/session.html" target="_blank">Session documentation</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Symfony session has other interesting features (like flash bags for unique usage data). You can read more about its usage in the <a href="https://symfony.com/doc/6.4/session.html" target="_blank">Session documentation</a>.
```
